[Docs] Add serving graph step to export metrics to OTel (#9871)
mlrun/mlrun: docs/model-monitoring/running-applications.md

After testing your application with external data, as described in {ref}`testing-application-evaluate`,
you can run it on the actual model endpoint data and write the outputs with `write_output=True`.

## Export results and metrics via OTel
You can add an external OTel-collector to receive the same results and metrics that are sent to the MLRun TSDB.
When configured, the results and metrics returned by `do_tracking()` in every monitoring window
are exported via OTLP to your configured endpoint.

> Each result becomes a named gauge: `mlrun.model_monitoring.result.<name>`. 

Reviewer: **We expose 2 fixed gauges, not one per result name.** The name is a *label*, not part of the metric (keeps instrument cardinality bounded to two):
- `mlrun.model_monitoring.result` → scraped as `mlrun_model_monitoring_result` (one per result)
- `mlrun.model_monitoring.metric` → scraped as `mlrun_model_monitoring_metric` (one per metric)

**Shared labels:** `project`, `app.name`, `function.name`, `endpoint.uid`, `endpoint.name`
**Result only:** `result.name`, `result.kind`, `result.status`
**Metric only:** `metric.name`

(OTLP→Prometheus turns dots into underscores, e.g. `result_name`.)

To export results:
1. Set the default collector using `mlrun.mlconf.telemetry.otlp_endpoint` on the API server.

> 2. Enable system-wide OTel collection by setting `otlp_enabled=True` when you run {py:class}`mlrun.projects.MlrunProject.enable_model_monitoring`.

Reviewer: It's per project and not system-wide

> 2. To export metrics from your serving graph, see {ref}`otel-export-step`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enable system-wide OTel collection by setting `otlp_enabled=True` when you run {py:meth}`mlrun.projects.MlrunProject.enable_model_monitoring`.
2. To export metrics from your serving graph, see {ref}`otel-export-step`.
```

Author: fixed

> 3. You can disable exporting metrics per project by setting the parameter `oltp_enabled=False` in {py:meth}`mlrun.projects.MlrunProject.set_model_monitoring_function` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. You can disable exporting metrics per project by setting the parameter `otlp_enabled=False` in {py:meth}`mlrun.projects.MlrunProject.set_model_monitoring_function` 
```

> 3. You can disable exporting metrics per project by setting the parameter `oltp_enabled=False` in {py:meth}`mlrun.projects.MlrunProject.set_model_monitoring_function` 

Reviewer: per model monitoring application and not per project

After testing your application with external data, as described in {ref}`testing-application-evaluate`,
you can run it on the actual model endpoint data and write the outputs with `write_output=True`.

## Export results and metrics via OTel
You can export the model monitoring results and metrics (that are sent to the MLRun TSDB) to the default system OTel collector.
When configured, the results and metrics returned by `do_tracking()` in every monitoring window
are exported via OTLP to your [configured endpoint](../server-cfg/server-metrics.md#set-the-shared-otlp-endpoint).

Each result exposes two fixed gauges. The name is a label, not part of the metric (keeps the instrument cardinality bounded to two):
- mlrun.model_monitoring.result → scraped as mlrun_model_monitoring_result (one per result)
- mlrun.model_monitoring.metric → scraped as mlrun_model_monitoring_metric (one per metric)

**Shared labels**: `project`, `app.name`, `function.name`, `endpoint.uid`, `endpoint.name` </br>
**Result only**: `result.name`, `result.kind`, `result.status` </br>
**Metric only**: `metric.name`

(OTLP→Prometheus turns dots into underscores, e.g. result_name.)

To export results:

> 1. Enable export to OTel collection for the project by setting `oltp_enabled=True` when you run {py:meth}`~mlrun.projects.MlrunProject.enable_model_monitoring`.

Reviewer 2: small typo otlp

Author: fixed
